W-13570062-non-http-ingress (#138)
mulesoft/docs-hosting: cloudhub-2/modules/ROOT/pages/ch2-deploy-api.adoc

= Deploy an App with TCP using the Application Manager API

To configure protocols other than HTTP or HTTPS, configure TCP inbound rules to manage traffic for your private space. You can then use the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/amc-application-manager/minor/4.0/console/method/%231158/[Application Manager API] to deploy an app using TCP. 

To configure firewall rules using TCP, see xref:ps-config-fw-rules.adoc#configure-firewall-rules[Configure Firewall Rules] and select TCP.

> == Find Free Ports for Your App

Author: ```suggestion
== Find Available Ports for Your App
```

The port range for TCP is from 30500 to 32500. To confirm port availability, use the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/cloudhub-20-api/minor/1.0/console/method/%232327/[CloudHub 2.0 API] that returns a list of available ports. 

> The following examples show the API request and response when you use it to find free ports:

Author: ```suggestion
The following examples show the API request and response when you use it to find available ports:
```

               "applicationPortNumber": 9001  
             },
             {
               "portNumber": 30502,
               "applicationPortNumber": 9002  
             },
           ]
         }
       },
//------------------------------------NEW-------------------------------------
     "jvm": {},
     "runtimeVersion": "4.4.0:20220523-1",
     "updateStrategy": "rolling",
     "disableAmLogForwarding": false,
     "generateDefaultPublicUrl": true
   },
   "replicas": 1
 },
 "application": {
   "ref": {
     "groupId": "66310c16-bce5-43c4-b978-5945ed2f99c5",
     "artifactId": "app-with-40-schedulers",
     "version": "1.0.5",
     "packaging": "jar"
   },
   "assets": [],
   "desiredState": "STARTED",
   "configuration": {
     "mule.agent.application.properties.service": {
       "applicationName": "logs-app-uc01",
       "properties": {},
       "secureProperties": {}
     },
     "mule.agent.logging.service": {
       "artifactName": "logs-app-uc01",
       "scopeLoggingConfigurations": []
     }
   },
   "integrations": {
     "services": {
       "objectStoreV2": {
         "enabled": false
       }
     }
   },
   "vCores": "0.05"
 }
}
----

> Deployments that include unavailable ports fail. Successful deployments occupy the newly mapped ports, and those ports become unavailable. If the app is deleted, the ports become available again.

Author: PENDING: 

[vli63127](https://github.com/vli63127) [1 hour ago](https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-hosting/pull/138/files#r1253528586)
add what the error message will be shown... does it specifically mention it's due to port unavailability?

Member
@[afelisatti](https://github.com/afelisatti) afelisatti [45 minutes ago](https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-hosting/pull/138/files#r1253605541)
It should AFAIK, @rsaxena05 can you confirm the exact message?

@rsaxena05

Author: ```suggestion
Deployments that include unavailable ports fail. Successful deployments occupy the newly mapped ports, and those ports become unavailable. If the app is deleted, the ports become available again.

If you configure ports incorrectly, the following errors appear:

* When you specify more than ten ports: `Owner <name>  has reached the maximum port lease capacity`
* When the port you specify is not in the range of 30500 to 32500: `Ports must be within the supported range of 30500 - 32500`
* When the port you specify is in use by another app: `Ports 30501 is already in use by other owner`
```

{
    "id": "id",
    "target": {
      "provider": "MC",
      "targetId": "873a9879-cca7-4211-b90e-826e98123929",
      "deploymentSettings": {
        "tcp": {
          "inbound": {
            "ports": [
              {
                "portNumber": 30507,
                "applicationPortNumber": 9007
              },
              {
                "portNumber": 30508,
                "applicationPortNumber": 9008
              },
              {
                "portNumber": 30509,
                "applicationPortNumber": 9009
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
----

Updates that include unavailable ports fail. Successful deployments occupy the newly mapped ports, and those ports become unavailable. The ports that you replaced with new mappings become available.

== Access Your TCP App

You can access the app using VPN or a transit gateway and within the private space. Since the apps run on worker nodes, they cannot be accessed directly over the internet. The URL to access a TCP app has this structure: `{application-url}.tcp.{environment}.cloudhub.io:{port}`

> For example, the URL for the app deployed in the previous examples would be `logs-app-uc01.tcp.cloudhub.io:30500`.

Author: PENDING: 

[vli63127](https://github.com/vli63127) [1 hour ago](https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-hosting/pull/138/files#r1253529554)
the example URL is missing {environment} - is that optional?

Member
@[afelisatti](https://github.com/afelisatti) afelisatti [48 minutes ago](https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-hosting/pull/138/files#r1253604415)
@rsaxena05  is the env relevant for EU customers? Or can we not mention it?

Author: ```suggestion
A sample URL is `mllp-app-2-mpskt5.q8b5lv.usa-e1.tcp.stgx.cloudhub.io:30500`.
```

= Deploy an App with TCP using the Application Manager API

> To configure protocols other than HTTP or HTTPS, set up TCP inbound rules to manage traffic for your private space. You can then use the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/amc-application-manager/minor/4.0/console/method/%231158/[Application Manager API] to deploy an app using TCP. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure protocols other than HTTP or HTTPS, first set up TCP inbound firewall rules to allow TCP traffic for your private space. You can then use the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/amc-application-manager/minor/4.0/console/method/%231158/[Application Manager API] to deploy an app using TCP. 
```

> To configure protocols other than HTTP or HTTPS, configure TCP inbound rules to manage traffic for your private space. You can then use the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/amc-application-manager/minor/4.0/console/method/%231158/[Application Manager API] to deploy an app using TCP. 

Reviewer 2: Consider "set up" for the second "configure" to avoid repetition

Author: ```suggestion
To configure protocols other than HTTP or HTTPS, set up TCP inbound rules to manage traffic for your private space. You can then use the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/amc-application-manager/minor/4.0/console/method/%231158/[Application Manager API] to deploy an app using TCP. 
```

> To configure firewall rules using TCP, see xref:ps-config-fw-rules.adoc#configure-firewall-rules[Configure Firewall Rules] and select TCP.

Reviewer 2: Maybe instead of "see", say "follow the steps in"? Otherwise, it doesn't read like a sentence.

Author: ```suggestion
To configure firewall rules using TCP, follow the steps in xref:ps-config-fw-rules.adoc#configure-firewall-rules[Configure Firewall Rules] and select TCP.
```

== Find Available Ports for Your App

> The port range for TCP is from 30500 to 32500. To confirm port availability, use the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/cloudhub-20-api/minor/1.0/console/method/%232327/[CloudHub 2.0 API] that returns a list of available ports. 

Reviewer 2: Should "from" be "between"?

Reviewer 2: Can you make the link more precise? (I actually can't see it - I get a 403.)

Author: ```suggestion
The port range for TCP is between 30500 to 32500. To confirm port availability, use the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/cloudhub-20-api/minor/1.0/console/method/%232327/[CloudHub 2.0 API] that returns a list of available ports. 
```

The following examples show the API request and response when you use it to find available ports:

Request:

[source,json]
---- 
GET
https:/anypoint.mulesoft.com/runtimefabric/api/organizations/{organizationId}/privatespaces/{privatespaceId}/ports?available=true&count=10
----

> 

Author: ```suggestion

In the request, the `available` parameter enables you to alternate between used and unused ports.
The `count` parameter lets you specify the number of ports, between 1 and 10. The actual availability of ports limits the end result.

```

Response: 

[source,json]
----
{
   "ports": [
       30500,
       30501,
       30502,
       30503,
       30504,
       30511,
       30512,
       30513,
       30514,
       30515
   ]
}
----

> 
> The `available` parameter enables you to alternate between used and unused ports.
> The `count` parameter lets you specify the number of ports, between 1 and 10. The actual availability of ports limits the end result.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> The `count` parameter enables you to specify the amount of ports desired. `count` can range from 1 to 10. The end result is limited by the actual availability of ports.

Reviewer 2: Should lines 42-43 be closer to the Request?

Avoid starting a sentence with lowercase.

> The `count` parameter enables you to specify the amount of ports desired. `count` can range from 1 to 10. The end result is limited by the actual availability of ports.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `count` parameter lets you specify the number of ports, between 1 and 10. The actual availability of ports limits the end result.
```

== Deploy an App Using the Application Manager API

> In the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/amc-application-manager/minor/4.0/console/method/%231158/[Application Manager API], use the `tcp` section under `deploymentSettings` to map your TCP port and deploy your app. The mapping uses the external port to expose `portNumber` and the app level-defined port `applicationPortNumber`. There is a 10 port limit per application. 

Reviewer 2: This link works, so maybe I just don't have permissions for the CH2 API.

Reviewer 2: I don't see the tcp section - is it new?). This. might be a good place for a code example with callouts.

Reviewer 2: Avoid "there is" construction. 
You can configure up to 10 ports per application?

Reviewer 2: Oh nm, I see the tcp example below :>

Author: ```suggestion
In the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/amc-application-manager/minor/4.0/console/method/%231158/[Application Manager API], use the `tcp` section under `deploymentSettings` to map your TCP port and deploy your app. The mapping uses the external port to expose `portNumber` and the app level-defined port `applicationPortNumber`. You can configure up to 10 ports per application. 
```

               "applicationPortNumber": 9001  
             },
             {
               "portNumber": 30502,
               "applicationPortNumber": 9002  
             },
           ]
         }
       },
//------------------------------------NEW-------------------------------------
     "jvm": {},
     "runtimeVersion": "4.4.0:20220523-1",
     "updateStrategy": "rolling",
     "disableAmLogForwarding": false,
     "generateDefaultPublicUrl": true
   },
   "replicas": 1
 },
 "application": {
   "ref": {
     "groupId": "66310c16-bce5-43c4-b978-5945ed2f99c5",
     "artifactId": "app-with-40-schedulers",
     "version": "1.0.5",
     "packaging": "jar"
   },
   "assets": [],
   "desiredState": "STARTED",
   "configuration": {
     "mule.agent.application.properties.service": {
       "applicationName": "logs-app-uc01",
       "properties": {},
       "secureProperties": {}
     },
     "mule.agent.logging.service": {
       "artifactName": "logs-app-uc01",
       "scopeLoggingConfigurations": []
     }
   },
   "integrations": {
     "services": {
       "objectStoreV2": {
         "enabled": false
       }
     }
   },
   "vCores": "0.05"
 }
}
----

> Deployments that include unavailable ports fail. Successful deployments occupy the newly mapped ports, and those ports become unavailable. If the app is deleted, the ports become available again.

Reviewer 2: Is "occupy" right? Would "use" work?

Author: ```suggestion
Deployments that include unavailable ports fail. Successful deployments use the newly mapped ports, and those ports become unavailable. If the app is deleted, the ports become available again.
```

> If you configure ports incorrectly, the following errors appear:

Reviewer 2: Try to avoid blaming user. 

For incorrect port configurations...?

Reviewer 2: What about flipping this to put the error first - the user is probably looking for that rather than what they did wrong.

Author: ```suggestion
For incorrect port configurations, the following errors appear:
```

> * When you specify more than ten ports: `Owner <name>  has reached the maximum port lease capacity`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* When you specify more than ten ports: `App <name> has leased the maximum number of ports.`
```

> * `App <name> has leased the maximum number of ports.` occurs when you specify more than ten ports.

Author: ```suggestion
* `App <name> has leased the maximum number of ports.` occurs when you specify more than 10 ports.
```

> * When the port you specify is not in the range of 30500 to 32500: `Ports must be within the supported range of 30500 - 32500`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* When the port you specify is out of range: `Ports must be within the supported range of 30500 - 32500`
```

Reviewer 2: (since the info is included in the error message)

> * When you specify more than ten ports: `App <name> has leased the maximum number of ports.`
> * When the port you specify is out of range: `Ports must be within the supported range of 30500 - 32500`
> * When the port you specify is in use by another app: `Port 30501 is already in use by other owner`

Author: ```suggestion
* `App <name> has leased the maximum number of ports.` occurs when you specify more than ten ports.
* `Ports must be within the supported range of 30500 - 32500` occurs when the port you specify is out of range.
* `Port 30501 is already in use by other owner` occurs when the port you specify is in use by another app.
```

> * `Port 30501 is already in use by other owner` occurs when the port you specify is in use by another app.

Reviewer 3: I dont think, we should show the error message that will be thrown , since those are maintained in the code and its not ideal to keep a track in the documentation. If we ever plan to improve/enhance on error messaging, we would have to fix it in docs as well. Let me know your opinion on this. CC: @afelisatti @vli63127

> * When the port you specify is in use by another app: `Ports 30501 is already in use by other owner`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* When the port you specify is in use by another app: `Port 30501 is already in use by other owner`
```

Reviewer 2: Can you suggest changes to the messages? It would be good to review these messages for clarity. For example "is already in use by another app" might be more user-friendly.

Also, check the error message guidelines that Isaac created: https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/x/SqdsJg

> For incorrect port configurations, the following errors appear:
> 
> * `App <name> has leased the maximum number of ports.` occurs when you specify more than 10 ports.
> * `Ports must be within the supported range of 30500 - 32500` occurs when the port you specify is out of range.
> * `Port 30501 is already in use by other owner` occurs when the port you specify is in use by another app.

Author: ```suggestion
```

== Update an App Using the Application Manager API

> In the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/amc-application-manager/minor/4.0/console/method/%231158/[Application Manager API], use the `tcp` section under `deploymentSettings` to update TCP port and redeploy your app. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/amc-application-manager/minor/4.0/console/method/%231158/[Application Manager API], use the `tcp` section under `deploymentSettings` to update the TCP port, and then redeploy your app. 
```

Reviewer 2: It seems weird to **use** a section to update the port. 

What about something like "To update the TCP port, change the `tcp` mapping in the `deploymentSettings` section and then redeploy the app."

Author: ```suggestion
Using the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/amc-application-manager/minor/4.0/console/method/%231158/[Application Manager API], change the `tcp` mapping in the `deploymentSettings` section to update the TCP port, and then redeploy the app. 
```

> The following example shows request to update an existing app and its body with a new TCP mapping:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows a request to update an existing app and its body with a new TCP mapping:
```

[source,json]
----
PATCH
https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/amc/adam/api/organizations/{organizationId}/environments/{environmentId}/deployments/{deploymentId}

{
    "id": "id",
    "target": {
      "provider": "MC",
      "targetId": "873a9879-cca7-4211-b90e-826e98123929",
      "deploymentSettings": {
        "tcp": {
          "inbound": {
            "ports": [
              {
                "portNumber": 30507,
                "applicationPortNumber": 9007
              },
              {
                "portNumber": 30508,
                "applicationPortNumber": 9008
              },
              {
                "portNumber": 30509,
                "applicationPortNumber": 9009
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
----

> Updates that include unavailable ports fail. Successful deployments occupy the newly mapped ports, and those ports become unavailable. The ports that you replaced with new mappings become available.

Reviewer 2: Any way to reuse this content, if it's the same as the previous one on line 126?

Reviewer 2: Oh, I guess it's different.

== Access Your TCP App

> You can access the app using VPN or a transit gateway and within the private space. Since the apps run on worker nodes, they cannot be accessed directly over the internet. The URL to access a TCP app has this structure: `{application-url}.tcp.{environment}.cloudhub.io:{port}`

Reviewer 2: Avoid using "since" if you mean "because". 
https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-synonymsandwordswithmultiplemeanings

Author: ```suggestion
You can access the app using VPN or a transit gateway and within the private space. Because the apps run on worker nodes, they cannot be accessed directly over the internet. The URL to access a TCP app has this structure: `{application-url}.tcp.{environment}.cloudhub.io:{port}`
```
